Okay. So, good morning. We are
continuing the Hebrew Bible today. Um,
last class we talked about King David of
Israel and how he created the Bible, the
pro the project of the Bible in order to
create legitimacy and authority. Okay?
And we're continuing along this theme
today. So, let's go over the chronology
of the Bible. Okay.
Um, so in the beginning there was God.
Okay. In the Bible his name is Yahweh
and he created the world.
And then he created Adam and Eve
in the Garden of Eden.
And people who took the Bible literally
believe this was about 4,000 BC. Okay.
As we know, Adam and Eve because they
disobeyed God, they were banished from
the Garden of Eden and they had two
sons, Cain and Abel. And then uh their
family start to populate the earth. But
then humans start to misbehave. We went
to war. We were greedy.
And so God decid decided to destroy the
world in something called the great
flood. And this is a story of Noah's
ark.
Remember Noah
uh was beloved by God. So God told him
to build a great ship and then he will
be able to live. Okay. um after Noah's
arc um came along a man named Abraham
and this was about 2000 BC. Abraham was
born in the city of of Er in Mesopotamia
and he was beloved by God because he was
a righteous and decent man and God made
a covenant with him. Covenant. And a
covenant is a contract. It's a promise.
And the contract is this. If you,
Abraham, swear allegiance to me, Yahweh,
I will make you and your descendants
founders of a great nation called Israel
that will stretch from the Nile to the
Euphrates. That's a promised land.
And return uh as a mark of this
covenant, Abraham and his ancestors will
engage in circumcision. Okay, basically
the foreskin of their penis will be
surgically surgically removed at birth.
Okay, so that's the covenant.
Abraham had a son named Isaac and Isaac
had a son named Jacob.
Okay. Um Jacob is the younger son of
um Isaac. So As
inherit the birthright and the blessing
from his father Isaac. But Jacob played
a trick on Asel and stole the
birthright. As was very angry, so Jacob
had to run away and live with a relative
for um a couple decades. And while
there, he married two sisters named
Leah and Rachel. And then together
they had 12 sons. And these became the
12 sons became the 12 founders of the 12
tribes of Israel.
Jacob will be renamed by God as Israel.
So Jacob really is the founder of the
nation of Israel.
Jacob, Jacob's youngest son is named
Joseph. And he is beloved by um Jacob so
much that his brothers became jealous of
him and sold him into slavery in Egypt.
Joseph was also beloved by God and he
had a special gift of reading dreams and
he became a special adviser to the
pharaoh and he became very wealthy.
Meanwhile, back in the land of Israel,
Jacob and his sons, their family are
facing this massive famine. So, Joseph
comes and rescues them and the entire
nation of Israel moves down to Egypt.
Okay? Where they become very wealthy and
prosperous and because they have many
children
eventually after a couple decades, they
become a threat to the establishment. So
the new Pharaoh who has no memory of the
contributions of Joseph enslave the
Israelites
and he wants them to die. So he
basically forbids them to have uh sons
and he um um basically tries to sanction
the Israelites as much as possible.
Eventually,
a man named Moses
is born into the Israelites in Egypt.
And because he's a boy, he has to be
killed. So, his mother puts him in a
basket. And then this basket drifts down
the Nile and into the hands of an
Egyptian princess. So, Moses grows up to
become um a Egyptian prince. But
eventually God informs them of who he
really is and he's the prophet um who
will deliver the Israelites back into
the promised land.
The Pharaoh refuses to let the
Israelites go. There's a major contest
duel between Moses and the Pharaoh. And
then God sends down like 10 plagues.
Okay, 10 plagues to force the Pharaoh to
release the Israelites.
Moses is taking the is the Israelites
into the promised land and then Pharaoh
ch has a change of heart and he wants to
destroy the Israelites before they can
escape. So the Pharaoh chases them.
Moses causes the sea to part. They they
cross the valley and when Pharaoh and
his army are about to enter the sea, the
sea closes in on them and drowns them.
Okay?
And then when Moses and the Israelites
are in a desert, Moses ascends a
mountain to receive the law of God. And
this is what we call the Ten
Commandments.
But while Moses is away,
the Israelites
create an idol to celebrate Yahweh. And
Yahweh hates this because Yahweh does
not want to be represented on earth.
So Yahweh um sends him to a long exile
in the desert and he tells Moses,
"You will deliver the people from Egypt
and that is your mission, but you will
not enter the promised land. You can see
the promised land, but you will not
enter the promised land."
So the mission goes to Joshua who is
Moses disciple and Joshua and the
Israelites start a massive military
campaign into the land of Canaan which
is a promised land and over the span of
years they basically massacre the people
and they create the nation of Israel
and then we enter the period called the
judges and these are 12 individuals who
become the tribal leaders of Israel. And
Israel at this time is at war with all
their neighbors, the Moabites, the
the Philistines, the
Canaanites. Um, and this lasts for a
long time until the Israelites pick a
king named Saul to lead them. Okay, King
Saul. And then as we know from King Saul
will come David who will use up the
throne from Saul and be the great king
of Israel that we that we remember
today. Okay. And David is considered the
real founder of the state of Israel as
well as the Jewish faith. Okay. So
that's the chronology
of the Bible. Now because the Bible is
written almost like a historical
document for most of human history,
people believe this to be literally
true. Okay. But in the past 400 years,
300 years, there are many archaeologists
who have tried to prove the events in
the Bible. For example, Noah's arc. If
there really was a flood, well, there
would be a geological record. There
would be a ship. Okay. There would be a
memory of this, but there was never but
but we have never been able to find any
concrete evidence to support Norse art.
Okay. How about the Garden of Eden?
Well, if the Garden of Eden really
existed, well, we can also find it and
we've never been able to find it. All
right. How about Abraham, Isaac, and
Jacob? Again, no evidence that any of
these individuals ever existed.
How about Moses?
Well, we would think if Moses really did
exist, there would be some records of
him in the Egyptian history, right? I
mean, 10 plagues is a travesty and a
disaster on the Egyptian people. No
record of that. Uh the parting of the
sea, no record of that. uh the judges,
uh Joshua, nothing. Okay, it's only it
is only until we get to David when we
begin to see historical records and
proof that David actually existed. But
before then, nothing in the Bible
um has proven to be um historical.
Okay? And so this is very confusing.
So what I will show you today is if you
see the Bible as a historical record,
you will only get confused. If you see
this as as a chronology,
this makes no sense. If you see this as
a work of fiction like a lot of people
do, this doesn't make much sense either.
Okay? Because when you read the Bible,
these events aren't actually
interconnected with each other. David
has no memory of Moses, for example.
That's weird. Moses has no memory of
Abraham. Okay. So these stories are not
interconnected.
So if this is not a historical record,
if this is not a work of pure fiction,
what is this thing? Okay. What I will
show you today is this is not a
chronology. This is a cosmology.
Cosmology.
Okay.
it. Remember last class we talked about
why
things are written down in the ancient
past and as I said kings sponsor writing
projects for three major reasons. The
first reason is to create legitimacy and
authority.
The second reason is to create a
national identity cohesion among the
people.
The third reason is the idea of
differentiation
to tell people who they are not. We're
Israelites. We're not Egyptians. We're
not Canaanites. We're not Philistines.
Okay? So these are the three major
reasons why kings sponsor
writing projects.
And for the Israelites and David, these
three
um imperatives are particular salient.
Okay, they're really necessary, right?
So, let me explain why that's the case.
So, legitimacy.
Remember, David usurped the throne from
Saul. Saul came from a noble family and
he was elected by the chieftains
to be their king and then David launched
a rebellion and eventually usurp the
throne. So David has a major leg
legitimacy problem. So how he solves the
problem as we discussed last class is
the Bible presents him as a poet king.
Okay, this is a very important concept
poet king. There have been warrior
kings, right? People, kings who go to
war and they win legitimacy by defeating
all their enemies. There have been
priest kings, kings who are head of a
major religion. But David is the first
poet king.
Okay? He writes poetry. He sings songs.
He's a sensitive soul. That's that's
what explains his affair with Bashibba.
And that's that and that that tells us
he could never have possibly been
ambitious and want to kill Saul. Okay?
He's the first poet king. So why is he
king of Israel? Because guess what guys,
God is the poet god. Okay? Poet god.
Yahweh is the poet god.
So this is a radical conception of
divinity in ancient world.
Gods previously have been priests or
warriors and this is the first time in
human history where God Yahweh is being
presented as a poet god. When you read
the Bible it's very interesting how he
creates the world. He speaks and things
are created.
Okay. He says let there be light. Let
there be heaven and earth.
He speaks and when he speaks a new world
is created and then he and then he looks
at at this world and says and this is
good. Okay. So he's like a writer who
speaks words and who edits his words in
order to create something much more
beautiful. He's a poet and as a poet
he's very sensitive.
Okay? Which means he creates Adam and
Eve because he's lonely. He wants
friendship.
Okay?
So in other words, the Bible is
fundamentally a story of friendship of
two poets who are alone in the world who
found friendship and comfort in the
existence is in each other. Okay. Okay.
And the way the Bible accomplishes is
through the idea of covenant. So in the
Bible there are four covenants promises.
So the first covenant um is between Noah
and Yahweh. It's it's what we call the
Noah covenant. The Noah covenant. The
idea of this is this. After Yahweh
destroys the world, he feels tremendous
remorse for what he's done. He promises
Noah, as long as humans are not too
evil, I will not destroy the world.
Okay? If humans stay good, I will not
destroy the world. The second covenant
is between Abraham and Yahweh. It's
called the Abrahamic covenant. And in
this covenant, Yahweh says to Abraham,
"If you and your ancestors, sorry, if
you and your descendants stay true to
me, I will create a great nation out of
you. I will give you the nation of
Israel." The third covenant is between
Moses and Yahweh. It's called the Mosiac
covenant. And the idea is if the
Israelites
follow the ten commandments and worship
Yahweh only Yahweh then Yahweh will
protect them as a nation. Yahweh will
show them favor. Okay. So, so those are
the three covenants. But when we get to
David called the Davidic covenant,
something interesting happens.
All three previously are what we call
conditional covenants. If you do this,
then I will do this. But when we get to
David, it's unconditional.
I, Yahweh, will promise that you, David,
and your descendants will forever rule
Israel.
The house of David will forever rule
Israel. Okay? It's an unconditional
covenant that shows his everlasting
friendship with David. In other words,
the divine covenant marks the end of
biblical history. Yahweh, this great
God, poet God who's been who searched a
universe for friendship
has now found his great friend in David.
And so his search has ended and biblical
history has ended.
Okay.
So this is a radical new idea in human
history. How a king and a god can be
poets and how the world how reality
reality can be constructed through
words. Okay. And that's why in the Bible
there's a very famous phrase called in
the beginning there was the word. And
that's why
um Jewish people are so literary. Okay?
Because that's part of their tradition.
If you look at some of the most famous
writers, the most some of the most
famous thinkers in the world, um they're
mainly Jewish. And again, a lot of it is
because um the Jewish faith is the first
faith to focus on literary creation.
Okay.